Course A, the FAT file system
or I'm module 2 and
in this module,
but we're going to talk about
the volume boot
record. Next slide.
The FAT 32 volume boot record,
it's located in the first
sector of the volume,
which is going to be
logical sectors 0.
Now, don't confuse this
with the first
sector of the disk,
which is Physical sector 0.
This is the first sector
of the logical volume.
This file is going to contain
information about the volume.
Some of the information of
interest to us in the
volume boot record.
What we're going
to see the OEM ID,
which will most
likely be MS-DOS5.0.
This will be the volume ON
OEM MID for operating
systems, Windows 2009.
Most likely that's the only
MID we're going to see.
We're going to be interested
in bytes per sector,
which is usually going to be 512.
We're usually going to have
512 bytes in a sector.
We also need to know how many
sectors are in a cluster.
This is going to
be very important
when we're navigating the disk.
Sectors per cluster varies.
It can either be selected
by the operating system
or the user does have
the option to change
that if they would like.
We're going to see
the number of FATs.
There should be two, one
is for backup purposes.
We're going to see
hidden sectors.
These are sectors
proceeding the volume.
These are the sectors
on the physical drive
that are in front of or
preceding the volume itself.
We're going to see total sectors.
Now, total sectors, times
sector signs will give us
the size of the volume.
We need to know how
big the volume is that
we're looking at. Next slide.
This is more information
that we're going to look at
in the FAT 32 volume boot record.
We're going to look
at sectors per FAT,
how many sectors are in each FAT?
We want to know the
starting cluster
of the root directory because
the root directory is going to be
a very important part of
the FAT file system that
we need to look at.
That's usually going
to be clustered too.
We also want to know where
the backup boot
sector is located.
The backup boot sector will
usually be in cluster 6.
We're going to want to know
the volume serial number
because most likely you're
going to be looking at
FAT on removable media
and we're going to need
the volume serial number to track
that drive across volumes.
We're also going to be
interested in the volume name,
note the volume name in
the boot record is not going to
be the user-created volume name
that's going to be in
the root directory.
It'll usually say no name
in the volume boot record.
We're going to want to
know the file system type.
That's also information
in the boot record.
Now, do not confuse
the volume boot record with
the master boot record.
The master boot record relates to
the physical dense and
volume boot record relates
to the logical
volume. Next slide.
We can see here in the chart,
all the important information we
just talked about in the chart
shows us the offsets where we
can find that information.
These offsets are relative
to the start of the
Data Structure.
If we're looking at the
volume boot record,
the offsets you see,
they're relative to the start
of a volume boot record,
not the start of
the physical drive.
Just keep that in mind.
The start of the Data Structure.
Next slide. This is
a look at a FAT 32
volume book record.
This is what it's
going to look like.
We'll look at it with our tools.
It's located on logical sector
0 and these values
are going to be
interpreted little-endian.
The volume boot record is going
to be one sector in size,
it's 512 bytes, one
sector. Next slide.
Now we're going to do a
walk-through and take a look
at the volume boot record
with active disk editor.
I need you to please
attach your MBR underscore
VHD virtual hard drive
and remember to note
the disk number of
their VHD in the volume letters
assign to your
virtual hard drive.
I'm also going to need you
to open active disk editor.
The first thing we need to
do is attach our MDR VHD.
We're going to go to
do disk management.
Once you're in disk management,
we're going to go to
Actions. Attach VHD.
We're going to browse to
where we saved our MBR VHD.
Mine is on my desktop in a
folder called Class VHD.
We're going to
select the MBR VHD.
We're going to click Open.
We're going to click Okay
and the VHD will attach.
Once you've attached the VHD,
note the disk number and
the logical volume letters.
Next we're going to open
active disk editor.
Once active disk editors open,
locate the physical
disk, expand it.
We're going to select
FAT 32 A is the volume that
we're going to look at.
So right-click open
and disk editor.
Once it opens, it
should open right
to your volume boot record.
Because it's logical
sector zero and we're
looking at the
logical drive if it
doesn't simply go to navigate
and go to boot sector zero.
Once you've done that, we're
going to take a look at some of
the information we went
over in our slides.
We have the OMED,
which we expect is MSDOS5.0.
You can see that it's
located at offset 03.
Next, we have our
bytes per sector.
Now remember these values
are red little endian.
It'll be read from left to right.
If we take a look down
and our data interpreter,
we can see the 16 bit
unsigned value is 512.
Our bytes per sector are 512.
If we look up, we can see
that is what our
tool is telling us.
We have 512 bytes per sector.
Next we're going to look
at sectors per cluster.
We can see that it's two.
We have two sectors per cluster.
So our clusters will
be 1024 in size.
You can see the number
of FATs is two,
which is what we'd expect to see.
That's located at
offset hexidecimal 10.
We can see we have
a media descriptor,
and our media descriptor is F8.
F8 indicates fixed disk.
We can see we have
hidden sectors,
which these are the sectors
proceeding the volume.
The sectors before
the logical volume
that are on the physical disk.
Again, this value is
red little endian.
We can see that we
have a 128 sectors
proceeding the volume.
Total sectors, the next
value we want to look at.
This tells us how many total
sectors are on the volume,
and this is a 32 bit value.
If we look at our data
interpreter and we
look at the unsigned
32-bit value,
we have 204,800 sectors.
That is what our
tool is reporting.
If we multiply the
total number of
sectors times the sector size,
that will account for all
of the data on the volume.
We're doing an exam,
we want to be able to account for
all the data on the volume.
We can also see
sectors per FAT 769,
and that would be located
right here in the hex,
and again it's red little endian.
Our root cluster is cluster 2.
We can see that in the hex
root cluster, cluster 2,
backup boot sector, it
offset hexadecimal 32.
Again, we're navigating from
the start of the
volume boot record,
not the start at
the physical desk.
We can see our backup boot
sector is located in Sector 6.
We can see our volume
serial number is
located at offset hexadecimal 43.
That's our volume serial number.
Now considering that in
this case we do have
a fixed disk because we
have attached to
virtual hard drive.
But if we were using
a thumb drive,
a volume serial number would be
important to track the use of
that USB device on this system
and also on other systems
that it may have
been plugged into.
You see our volume
label is no name,
which is what we expect to see
in the volume boot record.
If there was a
user-created volume label
that would be in
the root directory.
We're going to take a look
at the root directory
in our next module.
We can also see our
file system type.
Our file system is FAT 32,
and down at the
end of the sector,
we have our boot sector
signature as 55 AA,
which is what we expect to see.
That is all the important
information contained in
the FAT 32 volume boot record.